Then the next thing to tackle,
Will be our next breakpoint.
And so it reminds you what that looks
like, is it this crazy thing here?
So somehow now we're gonna have
to start playing with layouts.
We have the title,
[COUGH] we have the title is going
to have to turn in some way.
We have our image, somehow we're gonna
have to get the button on top of
the image, and
we have our paragraph here underneath.
So, that is gonna be kind of tricky,
but very doable.
Hint, grid will allow you to
overlap elements like that,
in addition to position absolute.
So to get that started here,
that min-width is 475.
@media (min-width:
475px).
And that should get you started.
So have fun working on
our next breakpoint,
which is our mobile landscape breakpoint
and see if you can figure that out.
All right, so
I hope you had fun coding that.
Next breakpoint here,
let's go through all of the craziness.
So the very first thing that we wanna do
is we wanna try to get the basic elements
in place on our layout for each card, and
not worry so much about how things look.
But if we can generally get
things in the right spot,
then we can go back and tweak and
make sure that it looks pretty.
So to do that, obviously,
we have a card here in our code.
The card's children are the h2,
the card-image,
a paragraph with some text, and
a paragraph with the button.
So we can set our article with that
class of card to be our parent.
And then each one of those individual
elements winds up being our children,
which means we can move them anywhere on
the web page that we want to move them.
So let's set that up.
So here inside of our media query,
we are going to say our card
is going to display grid.
And then we're going to say,
we're going to have
our grid-template-rows, sorry, columns.
We're only gonna have two columns.
We need to have our title, which is turned
on its side, and then we have the other
column that's going to have the image with
the button on it and the text underneath.
So to set that up,
we'll just say 40px 1fr.
So those two columns, so you can see
the see and coffee, [LAUGH] over here.
We haven't turned the text yet, but
there it is over here in its column,
the image assigned to the second column.
And then this paragraph, it has a space
here because, remember, we put some I
don't remember as padding or margin on
the paragraph in our previous breakpoint.
So it doesn't go quite over to the edge,
but it's kind of in that column here,
and then the button is over
in the column with our image.
Okay, so
that's what it's doing by default.
What we wanna do is actually
have three rows here.
We wanna have a row for the image and
the button will be on it, and
we'll have a row,
with the picture underneath of it.
So to set this up, we are going to say
grid-template-rows: 10%, 60% and 30%,
which is gonna make
this look even weirder.
[LAUGH] So again, don't panic yet.
So we have our image there,
you'll see that the image,
which comes before the button,
is trying to cram itself into the 10%.
The order button is in the second row, and
I don't think the third row is actually
being used at the moment, we have a lot
of work to do before we get there.
In fact, let's just go ahead and
do that now.
So if we go to our card h2,
first thing we wanna do is assign
this heading to its correct space,
which kind of already is.
We want the grid column to be
exactly what it is 1/2 be going
from the that first column.
And then our grid row will be 1/4,
we're gonna have it go all the way
down through all of the rows.
So which will again ship this
layout around a little bit?
In order to turn this, though, I am going
to lean on my CSS logical properties.
Now, if you haven't heard
of logical properties,
this is a mix of new properties
that are available to us in CSS.
The way CSS was written, of course,
was originally for English,
English is read from left to right.
And when we think of a box on the page
as we have throughout this course,
we have a top, a right,
a left, and a bottom.
That works great if you
live in left-to-right land.
But if you are writing a language that
goes from right to left, or and there
are languages that go from top to bottom,
this does not necessarily work for you.
So there's a whole suite of new
logical properties that you can use to
lay out some of these other languages.
You can also use them for
tricks like the one I'm about to do, and
that will turn our text on this page.
So to do that, you can do
writing-mode is vertical-lr.
And that will turn your text and it
will set it there inside of that column.
And it's put it by default
in the center of the column.
Pretty cool?
You can also turn this, of course,
lr stands for left to right.
You can also do rl, and
it changes the order of the lines of text,
whether you're reading it up and
down from right to left,
or up and down from left to right, okay?
So this is lr.
To get it back up to the start here,
we need to go to align-self: start.
And I will push that on up
to the start of our grid.
We also have margin and
padding on this, so margin is 0,
padding is 0, and that'll get us
the rest of the way here to the top.
All right, so now we have our .card-image.
And this one, we are going to have it
go over our rows from grid-row: 1/4 and
grid-column: 2/3.
So that's gonna put it
in our second column.
And it's gonna have it stretched
over a whole lot of our rows here.
So right now it looks kind of tall.
And in fact, it's hidden our button and
it's hidden our paragraph.
But again, don't panic,
[LAUGH] one thing at a time we are gonna
make this completely work, but
you have to type in all the code first.
For the card-image,
img min-height will be 600 pixels and
our border-radius we're gonna turn back
on again Var(--radius).
As for our paragraphs, .card p,
we're gonna put this at
our grid-row of 3/4,
our grid-column of 2/3.
So now we have our image,
and we have our button, and
we have our paragraph all
together on top of this.
To cover up the bottom part of this image,
we'll also add a background-color
of var(--vanilla).
And now the button is on
top of the paragraph.
So, you just see the button here, but the
paragraph is still there, it's behind it.
And that's because, remember,
we have two paragraphs here.
So essentially what we just did is we put
those two paragraphs on top of each other.
So we have the text in the back and
we have the button on the front, and
both of them have that vanilla background.
So now what we need to do is move
just the button up here on the page.
How do we do that?
.card, p: last-of-type.
Why not?
Because we're talking about
our last paragraph there.
Here, what we're going to do
is do our grid-column of 2/3.
But the grid row will be 1/2,
in other words move that button up to the
top of the page, so there it is up there.
How cool is that?
[SOUND] All right, so,
we need to override that background color,
because on the previous style here
we set the background to be vanilla.
So now that this is later in the styles,
we can set our background
color to transparent.
So that will have the image
shine through there.
And then we can just change
the styling here for our button.
So for the button,
Our background-color is var(--blue).
There it is.
And our color is var vanilla.
And our border-color is also var(vanilla).
Okay, not bad, super sweet.
And then, we set our hover state because
right now it's gonna go back to the brown.
If you like the brown,
you can keep the brown.
If you don't like it, you can change it.
.button, : hover,
background-color:var(vanilla).
Color: var(--blue).
And border-color: var(--blue).
Awesome, so
now you have a button that looks like
that when you roll your mouse over it.
The last part,
I kind of skipped over some things here
has to do with a bunch of padding things.
So let me go back to my card style here.
Just to clean up the final look here,
we can give this a gap of 0 to rem.
So that's gonna give us some space
between our columns in this case so
that they aren't all
smashed into each other.
And we can give some margin of 0,
sorry, 2rem auto.
So that will give us a little
bit of space on the top and
the bottom being given us some
padding of 0, 2rem, 5rem, 2rem.
So that is 0 on the top because we've
already got a little bit of margin there.
2rem on the left and the right, so
we get it off the edges of the screen.
And then 5rem down here on the bottom to
give us more space in between the cards
And I think that does it for those cards.
>> Why did the background
color on the button not work
until you did the actual button class for
a selector?
Cuz you made it transparent and
then you made it blue.
>> Right, well, let's see.
Well, so what we did was,
we have the paragraph around the button.
So remember we have
a paragraph around the button,
here in 173, we set that to be vanilla,
okay, and then,
which would give us, That,
we cut off the top of the image.
>> Why does it do that?
>> Well, we set the row to be 10% high.
And this button is a little bit
bigger than the 10% that's there.
So that's what's going on.
It's the 10% of that row has
that background color and
then the button is on top of that.
So by adding the background color of
transparent, we bring back the rest of
that image there, and the button
is sitting in a place that I like.
Make sense?
Yeah, good question.
Questions online?
Dustin?
Any questions online?
>> How do we make the button collide
with the copy picture at the top?
Sorry, they missed the CSS grid part.
So that was answered earlier.
>> No worries.
It's grid and
we assign it the same rows and columns,
at least in part to what
the image is occupying.
And so grid will very happily
put all of the elements and
stack them on top of each other.
If you assign them the same rows and
columns, it'll just stack things on up and
be very happy about it.
So absolute positioning is a little
bit different in that you can take any
element anywhere on the page and
pile it on top of something else.
With grid, you can pile things
on top of each other, but
they have to be all
inside of that same grid.
So you're more limited with how you're
gonna stack things on top of each other
with grid as opposed to
absolute positioning,
but the end effect here is the same.